## 86. Introduction to VPCs
Exam Tip: Important to be ready to build a VPC by memory before exam

VPC architecture traffic flow:
- VPC > Gateway > Router > Route Table > Network ACL > SubNet > Security Group > Server

[submnet design site](cidr.xyz)
common subnet ranges:
- /8 prefix: 10.0.0.0 - 10.255.255.255
- /12 prefix: 172.16.0.0 - 172.31.255.255
- /16 prefix: 192.168.0.0 - 192.168.255.255

typically use /8 prefix, most common used for businesses

Custom VPC
- more fine-grained control vs Default VPC

VPC Peering 
- connect to another VPC via direct network route
- can peer VPCs across AWS accounts and regions
- star configuration: 1 central VPC peers up to 4 others.

Exam Tips
- VPC = logical datacenter within AWS
- Consists of:
  - IGWs (or Gateways)
  - Route Tables
  - Network Access Control Lists
  - Subnets
  - Security Groups
- 1 subnet = 1 availability zone
- Security Groups are Stateful, Access Control Lists are Stateless 
  - NOTE: stateful = inbound/outbound communication paths are paired
- No Transitive Peering

## 87. Build a Custom VPC - Part 1
VPC Service located in Networking section

When you create a new VPC, it creates the following:
- Route Table
- Network ACL
- Security Group

Following steps:
- Enable auto-IP address assignment to 1+ subnets (enables public address)
- Create a gateway to access the subnets
- Edit Route Table to allow public access for internet
  - NOTE: always keep initial route table as private, create a new route table that you make publicly available
  - Add IP4 `0.0.0.0/0` and IP6 `::/0` entries to the new route table, point both to the gateway. 
  - Associate new route table with the desired subnet(s)
- Launch EC2 instances in each subnet

Exam Tips:
- the Availability Zone names are not the same across Accounts (US-East-1A can refer to different AZs)
  - this is to ensure users don't all select the same AZ due to predeliction for default options
- AWS always reserves 5 IP addresses within your subnets
- You can only ahve 1 internet gateway per VPC
- Security Groups cannot span multiple VPCs

## 88. Build a Custom VPC - Part 2
Private servers cannot be directly accessed via SSH, and cannot connect to the internet.
You CAN connect to them by first connecting to a public server, then connecting from there to the private server
- NOTE: you must set up appropriate Security Group permissions to allow the public server to connect to the private.
- Best practice: Use Bastions to avoid needing to store credentials on publicly accessible server in order to connect to a private server.

## 89. Network Address Translation (NAT)
2 options:
- NAT Instances: single EC2 instance (deprecated product, but still on exam)
- NAT Gateways: used in most cases - more available option

Steps to create a NAT Instance:
- Create by using the NAT Amazon Machine Image (AMI) EC2 instance
- Disable `Source/Destantion Check` feature on the new EC2 instance (required for NAT to work)
- Add entry to the main Route Table to allow traffic to internet via the NAT EC2 instance

Steps to create a NAT Gateway:
- Open VPC dashboard
- In left menu, select NAT Gateways, click create
- Use the public subnet as the parent
- Add entry to the main Route Table to allow traffic to internet via the NAT Gateway

### Exam Tips
NAT Instances
- must disable `Source/Destantion Check` feature
- must be located in public subnet
- must update route table to point to NAT instance
- amount of traffic supported is dependent on NAT Instance EC2 size

NAT Gateways
- includes redundency (but only given AZ)
- no need to patch
- must update route table to point to NAT Gateway
- if you create resources in multiple AZs, create separate gateways for each AZ

## 90. Access Control Lists (ACL)
By default, denies all traffic
1:M relationship with subnets (one ACL can affect multiple subnets, but a subnet can only link to 1 ACL)

Inbound/outbound rules
- Lower number rules superced higher number rules
- inbound/outbound rules are NOT paired.  You can/must set these independently
- BEST PRACTICE: increment rule numbers by 100

Ephemeral Ports ([wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ephemeral_port))
- AWS specifies that NAT Gateways should use ports 1024-65535

Exam Tips
- can block specific IP addresses usinc ACL, but not with Security Groups
- 1:M relationship with subnets (one ACL can affect multiple subnets, but a subnet can only link to 1 ACL)
- inbound/outbound rules are NOT paired.  You can/must set these independently
- Lower number rules superced higher number rules

## 91. Custom VPCs and ELBs
To provision a load balancer, you need 2+ public subnets

## 92. VPC Flow Logs
Log via CloudWatch or S3
3 levels
- VPC > Subnet > Network Interface Level

Exam Tips
- can only enable flow logs for Peered VPCs within a single account
- once you create a flow log you CANNOT change the configuration

## 93. Bastion Hosts
DMZ = public subnet

Use NAT Gateway/Instance for internet access for private servers
Use Bastion Hosts for SSH/RDP traffic to private servers

## 94. Direct Connect
dedicated network connection from on-Prem to AWS VPC

OnPrem => Direct Connect Server => AWS Server
dedicated connections to each server

use when you need stable and reliable connection to AWS (high throughput, etc.)

## 95. Setting up a VPN over a Direct Connect connection

Set up instructions:
- create virtual interface. Must be PUBLIC
- got to VPC console => VPN connections, create a customer gateway
- create a virtual private gateway
- Attach the virtual private gateway to the VPC
- Select VPN Connections and create new VPN connection
- Select the Virtual private gateway and customer gateway
- Once available, set up the VPN on the customer gateway

Needed for Exam

## 96. Global Accelerator
directs traffic to optimal endpoints over AWS global network.

- Static IP Addresses: (provides 2 by default, can bring your own)
- Accelerator
- DNS Name: you can route traffic based on IP addresses or DNS name provided by accelerator 
- Network Zone: similar to an Availability Zone
- Listener: listens for inbound connections
- Endpoint Group: 
- Endpoints

Exam Tips
- service to improve avaiability and perfromance
- always assigned 2 static IP addresses
- can control traffic using traffic dials

## 97. VPC Endpoints
Enables connection to AWS services without a public IP Address

Interface Endpoints
- elastic network interface (NIC) with private IP address connecting to lots of AWS services (API Gateway, SNS, etc.)

Gateway Endpoints
- similar to NAT Gateways
- meant for connections to Amazon S3 and DynamoDB

## 98. VPC Private Link
Allows you to expose VPC to thousands of customer VPCs
Doesn't requier VPC peering
Requires a Network Load Balancer on the service VPC and lastic Network Interface (ENI) on customer VPC
- point ENI on the client to the IP address of the Network Load balancer on the service VPC

## 99. Transit Gateway
Simplifies network architecture
- hub and spoke model
- allows transitive peering between thousands of VPCs and onPrem networks
- works on regional basis but can span multiple regions
- can span multiple accounts
- can use route tables to control VPC connections
- Works with Direct Connect
- Supports IP Multicast

## 100. VPN CloudHub
Allows multiple VPN connections to talk to each other
- hub and spoke model
- allows spokes to speak to each other

## 101. Networking Costs on AWS
traffic into VPC is free
traffic within an availability zone is free
traffic across AZs is $0.01 per gig when using private IPs
traffic across AZs is $0.02 per gig when using public IPs
traffic between regions is $0.02 per gig

Exam tips
- favor private IP addresses to reduce cost
- group EC2 instances in same AZ to reduce costs to $0.00, but runs risk of point of failure

## 102. Summary

Exam prep: 
- create a full VPC by memory, include all features discussed in course.
- review steps to create a Direct Connect Connection

## Quiz 6
To Review:
- public and private IP addresses, how to add a public IP address to an existing instance
- Wehther subnets can communicate across Availability zones
- Stateful vs stateless descriptions for Security Groups and Network Access Control Lists
  - stateful: what is allowed in, is allowed out (it moniters the state of the request)
- security group default behaviours (allows all outbound traffic by default)

Not covered by course
- AWS apparently needs to be notified of certain types of security scans